Assignment 3
Due April 7
Try and Complete by March 3

Complete: 
1.2.1 - Implement Paging
	Process Sharing
	Partitioning Shell Memory
	Code Loading
	Page Table
1.2.2 - Demand Paging
	Shell Memory Size
	Code Loading
	Page Faults

1.2.3 - Page Replacement Policy
Testcases

To Do:
Video (1.2.2)


Schedule:
Alexia: ??
Audrey: thursday (10-2pm & after 7pm)

Notes:
Implemented Process Sharing: Basically, i changed the find duplicates to update an array and mark which program 
it's a duplicate of if it if (-1) otherwise. Then in the program start and length, if it's a duplicate, it just
copies those values instead of loading anything.

debugging 1.2.1 (lowkey ignore these bc everything changed again for 1.2.2): 
- added comments and made the distinction bw page number and frame number clearer in scheduler & shell memory.
	we have page table = [page0, page1, page2, ...] where each entry is the frame number in memory for that page.
- Think about our program as being N lines split into pages, and the program counter tells us how far along we are. 
	I updated program_counter in the pcb to just track the line index we are at in the program (starting at 0)
- when we want to run a line, we get the pc and convert that to a page number ie a frame, and then get the line position in memory
	eg. if pc = 4, then we are at page1 which could be frame4 in memory so line at index 12 in storage.
	This allows us to get the correct lines in memory even if the pages are not allocated contiguously
- page table created first and then passed to the create_pcb function
- lots of print statements are commented out, they're useful for debugging and tracking whats happening with the pages
- updated the A2 test_list.txt to not run tests with MT and #
- when loading a program, the empty lines added to pad the last loaded frame arent counted in program length (otherwise messes up some of the policies)
- not tracking start of program anymore (its done through the pages!)
The seg faults were coming from not tracking the pages properly when loading the programs and also from how the page_table was initialized in the pcbs

Shell Memory Size: 
- assignment uses the variable FRAMESIZE to refer to the total number of lines in the program storage. 
	in our code we are using this to define the number of lines in a single frame!! (FRAME_STORE_SIZE is our total number of lines)

code loading + pauge faults
- changed loading functions in shellmemory to deal with pages instead and not load all the program at once
	we now have an initial function to load the first pages right after opening the file, 
	and a function that loads a specific page to a frame (which we can use to swap out pages)
- the coade loading takes in the file name and just reads the whole file until the page lines and the reads those in a frame 
	(not efficient but our programs are short)
- moved the shceduler context code to a new file (policy.c)
- updated the scheduler function to handle demand paging and page faults. I added helper functions because it was getting way too loading
- pcb now stores the program name
- I created a fram struct so now the program storage holds the program lines and the all_frames array hold a frame struct for each frame.
	this keeps track of the page it contains and the program name.
- the exec function now only calls load_init which loads the first 2 pages. then the scheduler is in charge of loading in new pages
	if they aren't in memory. it updates the page table entries (shared for duplicate processes)
- the page replacement currently happens in the function replace_page in shellmemory.c where I just pick a random frame number
	I'm guessing for 1.2.3 we'll have an array or something to keep track of LRU so then we just need another helper function that 
	gets the LRU frame number

Note: will need to make sure we cleanup pages + page tables + etc properly when quitting

Finished! 
Changes made:
To implement LRU I implemented a long global_clock and addded a timestamp to each frame. In shellmemory.c, global_clock gets initialized to 0. Then in shceduler.c every time execute current line is run we'll increment the global clock and each time a frame is used it's time_stamp is updated. Then in shellmemory I switched out the random number with a call to helper function find_least_recently_used which iterates through all_frames and finds the frame with the least time_stamp. 

I fixed small bugs to run the test cases and I switched the source implementation to end up calling the single scheduler, just because functionally it works the same and I didn't want to duplicate code. We do still have a pretty major bug that doesn't affect us passing the test cases but when I implemented page_table I set the size to the number of frames... however it's dependent on the program length which either means we should calculate the size of the program before initilaizing the pcb (or change the page_tables to be intialized within the pcb)... we didn't have any programs long enough before to have this be a problem but test case 5 with source does encounter this. I changed it for source.
